about-me.md, before:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about-me/
---

For most of my life, I have classified myself strictly as a laboratory scientist.
During my time as an undergraduate at the Caltech, then later as an industry
research scientist, and finally as a graduate student at the University of
Washington, I captured snapshots of chemical reactions, built and designed
chemicals and gels for smart windows, and created nanomaterials for thinner and lighter
electronics.


## From science to data science

In the middle of a Ph.D program in materials science and engineering at the
University of Washington, I earned a one-year, fully funded [data science
training fellowship](http://depts.washington.edu/uwdirect/) supported by the
[UW eScience Institute](https://escience.washington.edu/). Though the
program was intended to help scientists use data science as a toolbox to
advance their research, I fell in love with the versatility and power of the
tools themselves.

To learn more, I took advanced data science courses at
UW and worked on innovative projects in collaborations with data scientists at
the [University of Washington](http://www.rezahosseinighomi.com/projects.html) and the
[Pacific Northwest National Laboratory](https://www.pnnl.gov/computing/data/index.stm).
We're currently preparing manuscripts for these projects, and I'm excited to
share my contributions to the academic data science community soon. (Stay tuned!)

## Contact me

Feel free to check out my [GitHub](https://github.com/christinehc) and
[LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chjchang/) profiles, or
drop me a line _via_ email at [chchang (at) alumni.caltech.edu](mailto:chchang [at] alumni.caltech.edu).

Commit message:

Simplify website and update with new info

about-me.md, after:

---
layout: page
title: About Me
permalink: /about-me/
---

## About

* Data scientist in computational biology and cheminformatics research!
  - Basically, my job is to digest (_sorry, couldn't resist_) huge analytical
    datasets into information about molecules, whether structure- or activity-related
    in nature.
  - Some cool projects I've worked on:
    * Developing models for targeted protein sequence analysis
    * Building automated tools for smart reference library generation (_over 10x faster than a human expert!_)
    * Predicting chemical transformations using a language-based modeling approach
    * Using a recurrent neural network to predict whether or not Parkinson's disease
      patients are consistently taking their medication (_max accuracy ~60%_)
  - I also love the software development side of my job (mostly Python, some R)
    and have accidentally contributed to open-source tools as a result.
    Most are not yet public, but I hope to share them on GitHub soon!
* Studied materials science and engineering, data science, and chemistry
  - A (stringently air- and water-free) piece of my heart still lies in
    inorganic chemistry and nanomaterials ❤
* For fun, I love reading (_favorite authors: Margaret Atwood and Kazuo Ishiguro_),
  drawing (_and recently, watercolor painting!_), solving puzzles (_insert clever flavor text here_),
  and exploring new places and foods of all kinds!
* Here are some of my online profiles:
  - [LinkedIn](https://www.linkedin.com/in/chjchang/)
  - [GitHub](https://github.com/christinehc) (_no ongoing personal projects at the moment, unfortunately_)
