---
layout: post
title: Welcome! (And Thoughts on Storytelling with Data?)
---

This inaugural blog post marks the beginning of my official data science blog-slash-website
and officially my first foray into web design since elementary school, when I
built custom websites for each of my Neopets.[^1]

I plan to use this blog as a platform to share my experiences as a scientist
transitioning into the world of data science. Here you'll find some of the projects
I'm currently working on, general musings on data science topics, and other fragments
of my experiences as a newcomer to data science.

I know what you're asking, _why start a blog?_ Truthfully, it's a question I am
asking myself even as I write this post. I generally never use social media in
my personal life, at least not in a publicly available format. So to answer this
question, let me take you on a trip into the past. And by past, I mean one week ago,
when I was attending a career panel for women in data science in Seattle.

Attending a career event as a baby data scientist can be overwhelming, especially
in terms of the volume of available information. Though I enjoy these events, I find myself
fighting the feeling that I'm a lab-scientist wolf in data-scientist sheep's clothing.
However, the panelist, Dr. Julie Letchner of [Textio](https://textio.com/), shared
a term that immediately struck me and hasn't left me alone since.
That term was **data storyteller**.

You see, sometimes when we talk about data science, we get lost in the endlessness
of possibility: machine learning, neural networks, artificial intelligence, and
other very interesting and complicated topics that teach us how data science is the path
to a future imagined only in science fiction. What we talk about less commonly is _why we are using
data science in the first place_, and at the core of that "why" is a human who
has a question that can be answered with data. Using that data to create a graph
or build a predictive model is one part of a data scientist's job. However, the
other part is communicating the story that the data is telling us in a meaningful
and fundamentally human way. Learning do mesh both is the key to the successful
application of data science.

To answer the original question, I started this blog because I want to learn how
to use data to inform myself and others of the story hidden within data, and to
that end, what better way to communicate with data than writing about it on the
Internet? (How very quintessentially millennial of me.) My blog posts are intended
as a way to chronicle my projects and progress as a data scientist, with the lucky
side effect of _forcing me to tell you, the reader, these as stories._

So, reader, you've found me somehow in the magical æther of cyberspace. I hope you
find my data science (and associated stories) compelling, relatable, and, most of all, _fun_.
If I've succeeded or failed in these aspects, if your thoughts have been sufficiently
provoked, or if you have any comments to add, for any reason at all, feel free to
reach out with your feedback. After all, I'm convinced that mastering
data storytelling is---as in any art---an iterative process.

<br>

____



[^1]: Though the sites I made are, fortunately or unfortunately, no longer active,
      you can still access some of the helpful [web resources](http://www.lissaexplains.com/)
      I used to curate a web presence for my beloved, now-deceased pet Usuls.)
